# IndependentStudy
Machine learning research and implementation in the area of Reinforcement Learning using Unity3D.

# Abstract
The purpose of this study is understanding Q-learning through the theory that structures Reinforcement Learning and implementing Q-learning in a Third Person Shooter game. Markov Decision Processes are used as frameworks to solve Reinforcement Learning problems. The methods that are covered in this research are categorized into Dynamic Programming, Monte Carlo, or Temporal Difference. The three methods are used to derive the structure of Q-learning. The Third Person Shooter game is created using the Unity Game Engine. The game is modified to fit the Q-learning method and train the game enemy to play against the player. The training was performed over 6 weeks and results showed a satisfactory increase in the AI performance over the weeks. The results demonstrated that Q-learning successfully improved the enemy AI through a better approximation of the optimal policy.

# Files Included
The scripts included are related to the machine learning research. MovementTrainer handles the agent behavior and interacts with the Trainer and Projectile files. The Trainer class contains the Q-learning implementation and the Q-table. The Projectile File handles out of time interactions that are a result of the continuous nature of the game. The Trainer Object class is used to manage the Q-table and is attached to a single entity in the game. This is due to the fact that scripts must be attached to ingame objects to run before the game starts. The rest of the files are only relevant to game logic and are ommited. 
